Israel is coming under increasing
scrutiny for its treatment of
Palestinians in its detention facilities
the Israeli military is currently
investigating several soldiers suspected
of serious crimes against a prisoner at
one detention center but human rights
groups say this is not an isolated case
rather part of a widespread pattern of
systemic abuse across Israel's prison
system DW correspondent Rebecca Ritter
reports from Hebron where she met with a
former prisoner
without food without alte fde was a
different man after leaving prison in
Israel how much did you lose in total uh
18 18 to 19 k kilog a wild spent more
than 4 months in jail after being
arrested in August
2023 he was held under what is known as
administrative detention which allows
Israel to arrest and hold people without
charge he says the security services
weren't after him they wanted his son
a lot of prisoners are detained without
any accusation I was arrested to put
pressure on my
son he says that after hamas's deadly
terror attack conditions in the prison
became a lot
harsher as soon as the war started every
aspect of life changed I was beaten I
had a bruise hair on my face I had blood
coming out of my ears I remember it
happened in the beginning of November
they got into our cell beat us inside
took us to the bathrooms and beat there
too a Wilder's testimony is among many
to have surfaced in the wake of October
7 in a month-long investigation Israeli
human rights organization bed selum
interviewed dozens of former prisoners
collating what they say is evidence of
abuse across both the prison system and
detention centers run by the military
that's their question the situation they
say is so bad that Israel's prisons
amount to a network of torture camps it
was quite surprising to for us to
understand that that what we're talking
about is not a single cases it's a
policy what we see now is actually that
the Israeli um jail system was turned
into something very different from what
it was into a place where its main
objective its main a conduct is to abuse
Palestinian prisoners Israel's prison
service denies such allegations saying
they act in accord ordance with domestic
and international law but one case at a
military Detention Center has recently
made Global headlines this video
obtained by Israeli media appears to
show IDF soldiers frog marching a
Palestinian detainee and then allegedly
raping him using Shields to hide from
the surveillance cameras the incident
took place in July at the state T man
Detention Center which has held most of
the Palestinians seized in Gaza since
the War Began five soldiers are being
investigated for crimes including rape
in a statement to DW the Israeli
military said it rejects outright
allegations concerning systematic abuse
of detainees in the state hon Detention
Facility including allegations of
sexually abusing
detainees but whistleblowers have been
speaking out about human rights abuses
at the facility for months we spoke to
one on the condition of
anonymity everyone was hand cuffed to
the side of the bed their arms and legs
were strapped separately so that any
movement was impossible they were all
blindfolded the patients eyes saw were
naked except for a
diaper the United States says the rights
of Palestinian prisoners must be
respected and has called on the Israeli
government to investigate any claims of
abuse but for former detainees like a
Wilder the damage has already been
done in prison I felt humiliation in
every sense of the word this is
collective punishment beating without
any legitimate reason just for the sake
of Revenge and torture in other words
this is the true face of the
occupation he says his experience and
the experience of those around him was a
tragedy serving only to fuel their
hatred and resentment of
Israel Shia Parnes is a spokesperson for
the Israeli human rights organization
betum which carried out the
investigation of Israeli prisoners uh
prisons I asked him to tell us more
about the testimonies of prisoners
interviewed for the report well first of
all thank you for having me uh I would
say uh during this month uh of work we
interviewed
55 former detes from all over the region
it includes gazin West bankers and even
uh for uh Israeli
Palestinians um from different
cities who were held in different
facilities in 16 Israeli facilities 13
of them by the Israeli prison system and
three in uh military
facilities uh in different ages the
youngest was 16 the oldest was 65 from
both genders and what was uh shocking it
is in many details they shared pretty
much the same story of uh severe
violence starvation
humiliation sleep
deprivation and and that's why we're
saying it is routine and
systematic the Israeli government of
course rejects the allegations of it
being systematic but I I wanted to ask
you about video obtained by Israeli
media um that video that we showed part
of it in our report just now it appears
to show Israeli soldiers frog marching
at Palestinian detainee at a military
detention center and then allegedly
raping him in a recent interview you
said you were not surprised when Israeli
media released this video why is that
not surprising to
you um because as far as investigating
itself Israel is unable and unwilling to
uh really investigate her conduct or
investigate the decision makers and the
policy makers what we've seen for years
that every once in a while they do uh
investigate a case when it gets major
headlines uh in international Media or
International tribunals and they do
investigate these low ranking officers
or as you might may put it simple
soldiers but uh the Israel par regime
the system itself is unable and
unwilling to investigate itself its
policies how do you explain the
conditions and treatment of Palestinian
prisoners described in your report where
where do you think that's coming
from I have no idea where it's coming
from but what we've seen in the last 10
months is horrific as the you put the
the detainees who are released
losing dozens of kilograms what we're
seeing in Gaza daily and of course what
happened in October 7th what's going on
in this region for the last 10 month uh
must be stopped and that's why we're
calling the International Community uh
not uh stop condemning the actions but
uh put in
action um and we we just have to have
ceas fire and a deal to return the
hostages um
this vice versa Revenge uh and the
catastrophic human rights violation
going on uh must be uh stopped and I we
must say that that's the International
Community and the interational
tribunal's duty to do that now Israel's
prison service says that they act in
accordance with domestic and
international law the Israeli military
rejects allegations of systematic abuse
as we mentioned what do you say to
that well uh as we've seen in the report
it was uh it was the deterioration
wasn't uh just a stepping the hill it
was a it was a process and first when
Ben was appointed he just said it out
loud that it's is tosen the conditions
of these uh prisoners and as I said we
it's not one testimony to two it's 55
from all over the region even some of
them are
Israeli
citizens and you shown the pictures
yourself of these
decanes who were released so it means
even the aparted regime couldn't find
them couldn't accuse them of anything
and you we've seen together in your item
just minutes ago how they walk out of
prison looking like skeletons the the
policy of starvation is is
obvious what can human rights
organizations like yours and others do
to prevent the kind of abuse described
in your
report yeah uh so that's the pretty much
what human rights organization have to
do in their mandates uh we we
investigate the cases We Stand side by
side with the victims in this case the
the torture victims we're trying to
advocate for the for the victims in uh
in tribunals in in the media in Israel
media in international media and we do
everything our mandate as an human
rights
organization and our
reputation can uh can what we can do uh
to stop
stop what's going on and that's
also part of the reason I'm speaking
with you because also your country as a
major political and economic country can
take actions to stop what we' see Mr PES
thank you very much for speaking with us
today that was Shai pares a spokesperson
for the Israeli human rights
organization
betella let's hear from Naji abas the
director of the prisoners and detainees
department at pH itions for human rights
Israel welcome nii now many were shocked
by the findings of the BET Salem report
your group put out its own report in
February and you've heard similar
testimony haven't
you yes and actually we are still
hearing this testimonies because since
October our lawyers managed to visit
hundreds of Palestinians in the
detention facilities the Israel
detention facilities and all the
prisoners and all the detainees that we
are visiting are speaking and telling
the same thing they are speaking about a
very systematic way of abuse torture and
violence we are documenting and getting
testimonies and actually official
documents showing a a systematic way of
violating every basic human rights that
a the
Palestinians needs in the detention
facilities so the BM report just assured
or give a face when they brought these
testimonies brought a face for all the
information that we are speaking loud in
the in the 10 best months yeah how have
conditions for Palestinian inmates in
Israeli prisons changed since the Hamas
terror attack on October
7 let's let's say the the the the
conditions in the Israeli jails and the
Israel detention facilities shouldn't be
related to what's happening in Gaza and
to the attack of Hamas
it's a different system and we are
speaking about different people most of
the
Palestinian nowadays are from the West
Bank not from
Gaza and regarding the condition we are
speaking about a whole different story
about a whole different situation from
what we had before October before
October the the the conditions were were
hard it's not weren't a good place to be
the Israeli jails but after October
everything
changed medical negligence and L medical
treatment became the official policy the
Israeli IPS the Israeli prison
service abandoned the access of family
visits the access of the
icrc they stopped all the medical
treatment they took all the prisoners
belonging and left them with nothing
people we are visiting people that still
in the same clothes since
October and now how changed a a a fact
just one fact can describe the whole
situation we are speaking now about more
than 60 Palestinians who died in the
detention facilities the Israel
detention facilities since October yeah
that is according to your investigations
and we're talking about Palestinians in
Israeli prisons but what is your group
say is happening to Palestinian
detainees within
Gaza the Israeli Army don't hold people
in Gaza inside Gaza a when they arrest
people from Gaza and now we are speaking
about more
2,000 gazan Palestinian who are in
detention they are all brought to inside
Israel and they are being held in
detention facilities or under the
custody of the Israeli army or under the
custody of the Israeli Pres
service and in all these facilities in
neither the army or the IPS the
situation is very dangerous what we are
saying for months that these conditions
and these policies official policies
actually the Israel authorities are
proud to speak that they are making the
life of Palestinian theese harder and
harsher these policies brought us to a
situation that there are risk for every
every
Palestinian in the facilities for his
health and even for his life there na
abas with Physicians for human rights
Israel thanks for your
time thank you thank you